# blockchain-js

Implementation of Blockchain using Javascript NodeJS

### Prerequisite
* Download and install [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/) to run our blockchain code
* Download and install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) IDE for code development 

### Third party library used
* **crypto-js** to generate hash of the block using SHA-256 algorithm

### Blockchain

Blockchain is nothing but a digital, distributed, immutable, and trusted ledger which can be used to record anything from financial transactions, government records to land titles, or even purchase orders.

Each transaction record is a block, which are linked together chronologically to form a chain of blocks. If you want to change record in a particular block, you don’t rewrite it. Instead, the change is recorded in a new block.

### Block

Let’s see what a typical block in blockchain consist of:-

1. `Timestamp` is date and time when the transaction took place.
2. `Record` typically contains the details of a transaction like sender, receiver, amount. We are going to use actual names of sender and receiver in our program but in a practical use case like bitcoin, actual names are not revealed, a digital signature of sender and receiver is used instead.
3. `Hash` is a digital fingerprint that represents the transaction in the block and is completely unique. If there is any change in transaction details, the hash would also change. Generally, it’s an alphanumeric sequence generated by applying some crypto algorithm like SHA-256 on transaction details.
4. `Previous Hash` is the Hash of the previous block in blockchain. This is also used to generate Hash of the block.
5. `Nonce` is an abbreviation for “number only used once,” which is a number added to a block in a blockchain that, when rehashed, meets the difficulty level restrictions. We will discuss more on this later

### Run
To run the project, run following commands
```
npm install
node server
```
